Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, two of the greatest things that ever happened
to the rural people and to the people in the towns and cities of Tennessee was the Tennessee
Valley Authority and the rural electrification administration.
Well, back in 1939, when I first came to Congress, I met a fellow congressman, Plaid T. Ellis
from the State of Arkansas and this to Ellis is with us here today.
He is now the general manager of the National Rural Electric Association.
And, Plaid, welcome to this program.
I know that many Tennesseans who will be viewing it know you and certainly glad to have you
with us.
I'm happy to be here with you, Estes, on the program.
Plaid, I believe that the National Rural Electric Association had its annual convention
at St. Louis last month, isn't that true?
That is correct and of course many Tennesseans were there.
Well, I want to congratulate you upon your good judgment on one thing.
I have here the March Rural Electification Magazine and on the front page is Miss Joyce
Adams of Clarksville, Tennessee, who is namely Rural Electric Queen for this year.
Miss Rural Electification of 1960, that's right.
Well, that was certainly a good choice.
I wish you would bring Miss Adams up to Washington so we could all see her sometime and meet her.
Let me say that she won at Fand Square and National Competition.
She's deserving of the honor.
Well, after seeing her picture, I can certainly see how she won.
Well, I really think that since the days of Franklin Roosevelt and George Norris that you
have done more to help the Rural Electification Program than anyone in the United States,
tell us how the program is doing.
A first, what was the situation back when R.E.A. started out and what is it now?
In the South, generally, about 3% of the people in rural America, rural areas, had electricity.
In the nation as a whole, about 10%.
Today, it's about 96% of all farmers who have electricity, but we still have many of the
same problems that we had then.
Well, that's a great thing.
We're losing a lot of people from our farms and young people, and I suppose if they didn't
have electricity, we'd lose a whole lot more.
Yes, sir.
They're still leaving the farms by the hundreds of thousands every year, and this creates
terrific problems for the rural electric cooperatives because they were required by Congress, Estes,
as you know, to serve everybody.
That was a social decision.
Now when the farmers move away and leave those lines not paying any revenue, the rest of
the folks, of course, have to make up the difference and have to pay Uncle Sam for not only
what it costs to build their own lines, but the cost of those lines to serve farms that
are now also.
How many farms do you have lines in to now that have been vacated in the last few years?
Roughly 400,000.
Well, that really is a problem.
Tell us about some of the problems of the R.E.A. throughout the nation right now in
flying.
We have two major problems.
One of them is wholesale power supply, where we're going to get the power because the farmers
are still doubling their use about every five to seven years, farmers and other rural people.
So finding this power supply is difficult.
About half of our power is purchased from the commercial companies in the Tennessee Valley
country, 51 electric co-ops by all their power from TVA.
The other big problem is capital to build our lines bigger all the time.
When our flight is, you say, of us a social decision by the Congress that we wanted a
electricity available to all the rural people whether they were distant or not, and a low
interest rate was fixed.
That's true.
Half the people we serve today don't pay their own way.
Congress knew that would be true when it required us to serve everybody, whether they could
pay their own way or not, and that's why it fixed the 2% interest rate.
We call it the 2% area coverage covenant.
Well, as a matter of fact though, the government has never lost anything on an R.E.A. loan.
Is that...
Never a dime.
To the rural electric co-op.
What does the R.E.A. program mean to business in generally?
How much is sold every year to farmers?
Last year we did a survey in cooperation with American electrical industry in cooperation
with all...
A billion dollars a year.
That's a lot of business.
In appliances.
That's right.
Thank you very much, Slade Ellis.
That's all from now.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.